The behavior of split on an empty string depends on the value of sep. If sep is not specified, or specified as None, the result will be an empty list. If sep is specified as any string, the result will be a list containing one element which is an empty string.

string.rsplit(s[, sep[, maxsplit]])
Return a list of the words of the string s, scanning s from the end. To all intents and purposes, the resulting list of words is the same as returned by split(), except when the optional third argument maxsplit is explicitly specified and nonzero. When maxsplit is nonzero, at most maxsplit number of splits – the rightmost ones – occur, and the remainder of the string is returned as the first element of the list (thus, the list will have at most maxsplit+1 elements).

New in version 2.4.

string.splitfields(s[, sep[, maxsplit]])
This function behaves identically to split(). (In the past, split() was only used with one argument, while splitfields() was only used with two arguments.)
string.join(words[, sep])
Concatenate a list or tuple of words with intervening occurrences of sep. The default value for sep is a single space character. It is always true that string.join(string.split(s, sep), sep) equals s.
string.joinfields(words[, sep])
This function behaves identically to join(). (In the past, join() was only used with one argument, while joinfields() was only used with two arguments.) Note that there is no joinfields() method on string objects; use the join() method instead.
string.lstrip(s[, chars])
Return a copy of the string with leading characters removed. If chars is omitted or None, whitespace characters are removed. If given and not None, chars must be a string; the characters in the string will be stripped from the beginning of the string this method is called on.

Changed in version 2.2.3: The chars parameter was added. The chars parameter cannot be passed in earlier 2.2 versions.

string.swapcase(s)
Return a copy of s, but with lower case letters converted to upper case and vice versa.
string.translate(s, table[, deletechars])
Delete all characters from s that are in deletechars (if present), and then translate the characters using table, which must be a 256-character string giving the translation for each character value, indexed by its ordinal. If table is None, then only the character deletion step is performed.
string.upper(s)
Return a copy of s, but with lower case letters converted to upper case.
string.ljust(s, width[, fillchar])
string.rjust(s, width[, fillchar])
string.center(s, width[, fillchar])
These functions respectively left-justify, right-justify and center a string in a field of given width. They return a string that is at least width characters wide, created by padding the string s with the character fillchar (default is a space) until the given width on the right, left or both sides. The string is never truncated.
string.zfill(s, width)
Pad a numeric string on the left with zero digits until the given width is reached. Strings starting with a sign are handled correctly.
string.replace(str, old, new[, maxreplace])
Return a copy of string str with all occurrences of substring old replaced by new.